All right.
Very last component.
As soon as we're done with this thing, as I mentioned several times, this is where we're going to
start to see some weird things start to appear.
And this is where we're going to get back into the world of microservices.
Just a little bit more of this React stuff.
Let's finish this off.
We're going to flip back over to our editor.
We're going to start working on this comment list component.
So back inside my editor, inside the React Project, I'm going to find my CRC directory and inside
there I'll make a new file called Comment List As.
At the top we will import React and the use state hook from React.
We'll get Axios from Axios.
And once again, I forgot we also need use effect as well.
So we'll get used to it and use effect.
Then inside of here, we'll do an export default.
And once again, right now I'm going to return an empty div.
So what do we really have to do inside of here?
Well, very similar to our comment.
Create component or comment list is going to be responsible for managing its own data requirements.
So we want comment list to make sure that it can reach out to our comments microservice and fetch all
the comments associated with some post.
If we take a look back at the API design for our common service, here it is right here.
Remember that we said that we can make a get request to post slash post id slash comments.
So we once again just like inside of our post create component, we need to know the ID of the post
that we are trying to show comments for.
So all that really means is that we need to make sure that we communicate a post ID from post list down
into comment list.
So back inside of our comment list component, I'm going to once again assume that this component will
receive a post ID as a property.
Then inside of here, we can write out some logic to fetch some data, set it on state, map over that
state, produce a list of comments and display them to the user.
In practice, this is going to end up being a very, very similar, just about identical in structure
to what we did back inside a post list a moment ago.
So we're going to have some piece of state.
We're going to have a function to fetch some data.
We're going to call that from a user effect, and then we will map over the data that we fetch.
So now that we know what we're going to do, let's write out that code.
So first off, we'll get some comments and set comments coming from you state.
We're going to initialize this to be an empty array.
You might recall that on our post list we initialize that piece of state to be an object.
But whenever we get a list of comments, remember what our API sends back to us.
The API that we put together is going to give us an array of comments associated with the given post.
So in this case, we know that we're going to be working with an array.
I'll then define a function called fetch data.
This will be an async function.
Inside of here.
We'll get some response from calling a wait Axios target.
I'm going to once again pass in a template string.
We're going to make a request to HTTP, colon, slash, slash local host.
And again, we're going to our comments, microservice, which is hosted at Port 4001.
Then the path that we need to make the request to is post slash, then the post ID slash comments.
So then take the data out of that response and update our comments piece of state using that.
Set comments.
Function set comments.
Rez data.
Next up, we need to make sure that fetch data is called just one time when this component is first
displayed on the screen.
So that's what we got that user effect took for.
So put together a use effect call.
We only want this effect to be called exactly one time.
So as the second argument, we'll put in that empty array.
And then inside of here.
We will call fetch data.
And that's pretty much it.
Now last thing we need to do is map over our list of comments and return some jokes out of that entire
list.
So to build out that thing.
I think inside of our mockup we displayed it as a unordered list right here.
So a UL with some allies.
So let's map over that array of comments.
It will say const rendered comments is common spot map.
And for every comment that we get back.
We'll return and lie.
Inside the lie will display the content of the comments because remember, every comment that we've
created has a content property.
We'll say comment content because we are building a list right here.
React is going to expect this lie to have a key property assigned to it.
So we will assign a key property and inside they will use the comments ID.
So then, finally, at the very bottom, I will return a UL.
And inside there I will display my rendered.
Comments.
And that should be it.
So once again, let's save this file.
Well, then go back over to our post list component.
That's where we said we were going to show this thing from.
So inside a post list, we want to show many copies of comment list.
So here's my post list component.
At the very top.
I will import comment list.
Brown comment list.
Well, then go down to our Rendered Post's map function.
So this is where we iterate over every post.
And then right after comment creates we can show.
Permits are simply not right after.
We want right before because we want to show the list of comments and then give the user a forum to
create a new one.
The right here is we will put in comment list and once again, remember, we need to tell comment list
which posts or which ID to post which post ID.
There we go.
This thing needs to retrieve comments for.
So just like comment create.
We need to pass down that post ID prop.
We'll say post id is post dot ID.
Okay.
Let's save this and we'll do a test.
Yeah, I see it.
My comment that I created just a moment ago.
Up here.
Right there.
Now, I should be able to create yet another comment.
So I'll say second comment.
I'll submit it.
I'm going to refresh the page because remember, we don't have any kind of reload logic inside of here
right now.
And I'll see second comment up here and I should be able to associate some comments with these other
posts I created.
So I'll say neat post.
And then on the third one I'll put in something like This is a great post.
I'll refresh the page and I see those comments appear.
Well, this definitely works.
But like I said, there is some big downsides here.
So if we take a look at our network request log, I'm at network, I'm filtered by X Air requests.
And if I refresh the page, I just want you to notice something very simple might seem very benign and
small.
We are making one request for every post we have fetched, and that's kind of the route issue that we
are in right now.
That might not seem like a big deal, but let's take a pause right here.
Come back the next video.
And I want to highlight why this is kind of a big deal right now.